README.md, before:

docker-ubuntu-vnc-desktop
=========================

[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc/)
[![Docker Stars](https://img.shields.io/docker/stars/dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc/)

Docker image to provide HTML5 VNC interface to access Ubuntu 16.04 LXDE desktop environment.

Quick Start
-------------------------

Run the docker container and access with port `6080`

```
docker run -p 6080:80 -v /dev/shm:/dev/shm dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc
```

Browse http://127.0.0.1:6080/

<img src="https://raw.github.com/fcwu/docker-ubuntu-vnc-desktop/master/screenshots/lxde.png?v1" width=700/>

**Ubuntu Version**

Choose your favorite Ubuntu version with [tags](https://hub.docker.com/r/dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc/tags/)

- bionic: Ubuntu 18.04 (latest)
- bionic-lxqt: Ubuntu 18.04 LXQt
- xenial: Ubuntu 16.04
- trusty: Ubuntu 14.04

VNC Viewer
------------------

Forward VNC service port 5900 to host by

```
docker run -p 6080:80 -p 5900:5900 -v /dev/shm:/dev/shm dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc
```

Now, open the vnc viewer and connect to port 5900. If you would like to protect vnc service by password, set environment variable `VNC_PASSWORD`, for example

```
docker run -p 6080:80 -p 5900:5900 -e VNC_PASSWORD=mypassword -v /dev/shm:/dev/shm dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc
```

A prompt will ask password either in the browser or vnc viewer.

HTTP Base Authentication
---------------------------

This image provides base access authentication of HTTP via `HTTP_PASSWORD`

```
docker run -p 6080:80 -e HTTP_PASSWORD=mypassword -v /dev/shm:/dev/shm dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc
```

SSL
--------------------

To connect with SSL, generate self signed SSL certificate first if you don't have it

```
mkdir -p ssl
openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout ssl/nginx.key -out ssl/nginx.crt
```

Specify SSL port by `SSL_PORT`, certificate path to `/etc/nginx/ssl`, and forward it to 6081

```
docker run -p 6081:443 -e SSL_PORT=443 -v ${PWD}/ssl:/etc/nginx/ssl -v /dev/shm:/dev/shm dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc
```

Screen Resolution
------------------

The Resolution of virtual desktop adapts browser window size when first connecting the server. You may choose a fixed resolution by passing `RESOLUTION` environment variable, for example

```
docker run -p 6080:80 -e RESOLUTION=1920x1080 -v /dev/shm:/dev/shm dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc
```

Default Desktop User
--------------------

The default user is `root`. You may change the user and password respectively by `USER` and `PASSWORD` environment variable, for example,

```
docker run -p 6080:80 -e USER=doro -e PASSWORD=password -v /dev/shm:/dev/shm dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc
```

Sound (Preview version and Linux only)
-------------------

It only works in Linux. 

First of all, insert kernel module `snd-aloop` and specify `2` as the index of sound loop device

```
sudo modprobe snd-aloop index=2
```

Start the container

```
docker run -it --rm -p 6080:80 --device /dev/snd -e ALSADEV=hw:2,0 dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc
```

where `--device /dev/snd -e ALSADEV=hw:2,0` means to grant sound device to container and set basic ASLA config to use card 2.

Launch a browser with URL http://127.0.0.1:6080/#/?video, where `video` means to start with video mode. Now you can start Chromium in start menu (Internet -> Chromium Web Browser Sound) and try to play some video.

Following is the screen capture of these operations. Turn on your sound at the end of video!

[![demo video](http://img.youtube.com/vi/Kv9FGClP1-k/0.jpg)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kv9FGClP1-k)


Generate Dockerfile from jinja template
-------------------

Dockerfile and configuration can be generated by template. 

- arch: one of `amd64` or `armhf`
- flavor: refer to file in flavor/`flavor`.yml
- image: base image
- localbuild: build from local that will use mirror site if set
- desktop: desktop environment which is set in flavor
- addon_package: Debian package to be installed which is set in flavor

Dockerfile and configuration are re-generate if they do not exist. Or you may force to re-generate by removing them with the command `make clean`.

Troubleshooting and FAQ
==================

1. boot2docker connection issue, https://github.com/fcwu/docker-ubuntu-vnc-desktop/issues/2
2. Multi-language supports, https://github.com/fcwu/docker-ubuntu-vnc-desktop/issues/80
3. Autostart, https://github.com/fcwu/docker-ubuntu-vnc-desktop/issues/85
4. x11vnc arguments(multiptr), https://github.com/fcwu/docker-ubuntu-vnc-desktop/issues/101
5. firefox/chrome crash (/dev/shm), https://github.com/fcwu/docker-ubuntu-vnc-desktop/issues/112

License
==================

See the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

stripped down functionality
- xvfb removed
- new remotes
- Xdummy added
- x11vnc is default

README.md, after:

This repo is work in progress, please consider the origin as latest.

- localbuild takes country short codes as 'tw' 'tr' 'de', instead of 1
- remove firefox and chromium to reduce image size
- Changed xvfb to Xdummy
- default resolution to 1280x800 right now
- removed PPA https://launchpad.net/~fcwu-tw/+archive/ubuntu/ppa
- installing default x11vnc

docker-ubuntu-vnc-desktop
=========================

[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc/)
[![Docker Stars](https://img.shields.io/docker/stars/dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc/)

Docker image to provide HTML5 VNC interface to access Ubuntu 16.04 LXDE desktop environment.

Quick Start
-------------------------

Run the docker container and access with port `6080`

```
docker run -p 6080:80 -v /dev/shm:/dev/shm dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc
```

Browse http://127.0.0.1:6080/

<img src="https://raw.github.com/fcwu/docker-ubuntu-vnc-desktop/master/screenshots/lxde.png?v1" width=700/>

**Ubuntu Version**

Choose your favorite Ubuntu version with [tags](https://hub.docker.com/r/dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc/tags/)

- bionic: Ubuntu 18.04 (latest)
- bionic-lxqt: Ubuntu 18.04 LXQt
- xenial: Ubuntu 16.04
- trusty: Ubuntu 14.04

VNC Viewer
------------------

Forward VNC service port 5900 to host by

```
docker run -p 6080:80 -p 5900:5900 -v /dev/shm:/dev/shm dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc
```

Now, open the vnc viewer and connect to port 5900. If you would like to protect vnc service by password, set environment variable `VNC_PASSWORD`, for example

```
docker run -p 6080:80 -p 5900:5900 -e VNC_PASSWORD=mypassword -v /dev/shm:/dev/shm dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc
```

A prompt will ask password either in the browser or vnc viewer.

HTTP Base Authentication
---------------------------

This image provides base access authentication of HTTP via `HTTP_PASSWORD`

```
docker run -p 6080:80 -e HTTP_PASSWORD=mypassword -v /dev/shm:/dev/shm dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc
```

SSL
--------------------

To connect with SSL, generate self signed SSL certificate first if you don't have it

```
mkdir -p ssl
openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout ssl/nginx.key -out ssl/nginx.crt
```

Specify SSL port by `SSL_PORT`, certificate path to `/etc/nginx/ssl`, and forward it to 6081

```
docker run -p 6081:443 -e SSL_PORT=443 -v ${PWD}/ssl:/etc/nginx/ssl -v /dev/shm:/dev/shm dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc
```

Screen Resolution
------------------

The Resolution of virtual desktop adapts browser window size when first connecting the server. You may choose a fixed resolution by passing `RESOLUTION` environment variable, for example

```
docker run -p 6080:80 -e RESOLUTION=1920x1080 -v /dev/shm:/dev/shm dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc
```

Default Desktop User
--------------------

The default user is `root`. You may change the user and password respectively by `USER` and `PASSWORD` environment variable, for example,

```
docker run -p 6080:80 -e USER=doro -e PASSWORD=password -v /dev/shm:/dev/shm dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc
```

Sound (Preview version and Linux only)
-------------------

It only works in Linux. 

First of all, insert kernel module `snd-aloop` and specify `2` as the index of sound loop device

```
sudo modprobe snd-aloop index=2
```

Start the container

```
docker run -it --rm -p 6080:80 --device /dev/snd -e ALSADEV=hw:2,0 dorowu/ubuntu-desktop-lxde-vnc
```

where `--device /dev/snd -e ALSADEV=hw:2,0` means to grant sound device to container and set basic ASLA config to use card 2.

Launch a browser with URL http://127.0.0.1:6080/#/?video, where `video` means to start with video mode. Now you can start Chromium in start menu (Internet -> Chromium Web Browser Sound) and try to play some video.

Following is the screen capture of these operations. Turn on your sound at the end of video!

[![demo video](http://img.youtube.com/vi/Kv9FGClP1-k/0.jpg)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kv9FGClP1-k)


Generate Dockerfile from jinja template
-------------------

Dockerfile and configuration can be generated by template. 

- arch: one of `amd64` or `armhf`
- flavor: refer to file in flavor/`flavor`.yml
- image: base image
- localbuild: build from local that will use mirror site if set
- desktop: desktop environment which is set in flavor
- addon_package: Debian package to be installed which is set in flavor

Dockerfile and configuration are re-generate if they do not exist. Or you may force to re-generate by removing them with the command `make clean`.

Troubleshooting and FAQ
==================

1. boot2docker connection issue, https://github.com/fcwu/docker-ubuntu-vnc-desktop/issues/2
2. Multi-language supports, https://github.com/fcwu/docker-ubuntu-vnc-desktop/issues/80
3. Autostart, https://github.com/fcwu/docker-ubuntu-vnc-desktop/issues/85
4. x11vnc arguments(multiptr), https://github.com/fcwu/docker-ubuntu-vnc-desktop/issues/101
5. firefox/chrome crash (/dev/shm), https://github.com/fcwu/docker-ubuntu-vnc-desktop/issues/112

License
==================

See the LICENSE file for details.
